hi I'm Romina Rasmussen with Layne
Madeleine and today we are going to make
a crispy tart shell out of puff pastry
alright so we have our dough it's a
little bit thick so if you've bought
store-bought kind of dough then it's
gonna be a little too thick so we want
to roll it a little bit thinner we're
going for about a quarter of an inch so
we're gonna roll it into a square there
we go I'm gonna check yep it's about a
quarter of an inch so I'm gonna take my
tart shell and the dough is actually
it's very delicate but not as delicate
so don't be afraid so I'm gonna fold it
in quarters and I'm gonna do that to get
it over to my tart shop and that way I
can place it back in there and unfold it
and it's it's halfway done already I'm
gonna tuck it into the corners cuz you
know you want your tart shell to have
nice square bottom take your time
try to do it in a cool ish room if you
tend to have warm hands you can always
have a ziploc bag of ice water next to
you that you can touch and then go back
to touching the dough that way you don't
melt it you do want to work quickly but
it's not a panic kind of a situation
alright so when I know that I've gone
all the way around and they've pushed in
my corners I can take my knife and you
don't want to press against it because
you'll seal off your layers so you want
to use a knife to cut through the layers
and that way you'll still be able to see
them as it bakes now I'll show you what
I mean when we're done okay so when
you've cut all the way around and you've
got it nice and square into your corners
save your scraps neatly so that you can
still roll them out and not lose those
layers that you or somebody else worked
really hard to get and that's great for
making Pommier or tart tatin and
upside-down apple tart okay so I've got
my crumbly paper and I'm just going to
stick it in the middle of the tart shell
and this is gonna weigh it down the puff
pastry is just that it puffs up so you
want to keep it from puffing up as much
as you can and I've got the rice up
about two-thirds of the way and it's
actually going to kind of create
a little bit of a lip which is great
because that'll help keep our filling
from overflowing depending on what you
what kind of filling you want to use now
I'm just gonna put it on the tray
that'll be easier to maneuver in your
oven than trying to hold it from the
sides we're gonna bake it at 375 and
it's gonna take about 45 minutes so
don't panic that is taking too long it's
really actually very hard to burn puff
pastry so don't worry the thing that's
really important when you're baking
anything out of puff pastry is to bake
it all the way through otherwise those
layers in the middle will just a gummy
and they won't have that light and flaky
texture that's really the whole point of
this kind of dough so we're gonna pop it
in the oven and I'm gonna rotate it in
about 20 minutes so after you've baked
it it's gonna take about 45 minutes do
you pull it out of the oven and I've
already taken it out of the tart mold
but you can see that it is brown all the
way across the bottom and that's how I
know that it's fully baked in fact I can
even see through the top that it's nice
and brown so this is gonna be nice and
crispy for whatever we decide to put
inside there and here's the beautiful
thing about puff pastry you can see all
those layers and so it's gonna just be
nice and flaky and buttery in there it's
gonna be awesome and so there you have
it a crispy puff pastry tart shell isn't
a great
you